The President:
Hi, everybody.
As 2014 comes to an end,
we can enter the New Year
with new confidence
that America is making
significant strides
where it counts.
The steps we took nearly
six years ago to rescue
our economy and rebuild it
on a new foundation helped
make 2014 the strongest
year for job growth
since the 1990s.
Over the past 57 months,
our businesses have
created nearly 11
million new jobs.
And in a hopeful sign for
middle-class families,
wages are on
the rise again.
Our investments in
American manufacturing
have helped fuel its best
stretch of job growth
since the '90s.
America is now the number
one producer of oil
and gas, saving drivers about
70 cents a gallon at the
pump over last
Christmas.
The auto industry we
rescued is on track
for its strongest
year since 2005.
Thanks to the Affordable
Care Act, about 10 million
Americans have gained
health insurance
in the past
year alone.
And since I took office,
we have cut our deficits
by about two-thirds.
Meanwhile, around the
world, America is leading.
We're leading the
coalition to degrade
and ultimately
destroy ISIL.
We're leading the global
fight to combat the
Ebola outbreak
in West Africa.
We're leading global
efforts to address climate
change, including
last month's joint
announcement
with China.
We're turning a new page
in our relationship with
the Cuban people.
And in less than two
weeks, after more than
13 years, our combat
mission in Afghanistan
will be over, and our
war there will come
to a responsible end.
Today, more of our troops
are home for the holidays
than at any time
in over a decade.
Still, many of our men
and women in uniform will
spend this Christmas
in harm's way.
And as Commander-in-Chief,
I want our troops to know:
your country is united in
our support and gratitude
for you and
your families.
The six years since the
financial crisis have
demanded hard work and
sacrifice on everyone's part.
But as a country, we have
every right to be proud
of what we've got
to show for it.
More jobs.
More insured.
A growing economy.
Shrinking deficits.
Bustling industry.
Booming energy.
Pick any metric
you want,
America's
resurgence is real.
And we now have the
chance to reverse the
decades-long erosion of
middle-class jobs and incomes.
We just have to invest in
the things that we know
will secure even faster
growth in higher-paying
jobs for more Americans.
We have to make sure our
economy, our justice
system, and our government
work not only for a few,
but for all of us.
And I look forward to
working together with the
new Congress next year
on these priorities.
Sure, we'll disagree
on some things.
We'll have to
compromise on others.
I'll act on my own
when it's necessary.
But I will never stop
trying to make life better
for people like you.
Because thanks
to your efforts,
a new foundation
is laid.
A new future is
ready to be written.
We have set the stage for
a new American moment,
and I'm going to spend
every minute of my last
two years making
sure we seize it.
On behalf of the Obama
family, I wish all
of you a very
Merry Christmas.
Thanks, and have a
wonderful holiday season.